---
title: 'Continuous Integration and Deployment (CI/CD)'
date: 2023-02-22
permalink: /posts/2023/02/cicd
tags:
  - SWE
  - testing
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
toc: false
---

CI: Continuous Integration    CD: Continuous Deployment
CI/CD refers to an automated testing pipeline. This article provides a brief overview of the CI/CD pipeline, and frameworks that provide CI/CD services.<!--more-->

## CI vs CD

CI automates building and testing of software. CD is an extension of CI. It allows software to be deployed after every code commit that passes your test suite. 


## 3 Parts of a CI/CD Pipeline


1. Build Stage
	- Multiple teams pushing  code to a repository (e.g. github)
	- Commit conflicts arise due to quickly increasing code complexity and difference in code styles (e.g. env, tooling, code quality)
	- Including build process in the pipeline automates dev contributions and provides tools to standardize quality and dev environments
2. Testing Stage
	- Different types of testing can be used together in an automated CI pipeline (i.e. unit + integration testing)
	- Testing measures vital data about software performance that can be integrated back into the code. This results in higher quality software with fewer bugs.
3. Deploy Stage
	- Deployment strategy configures the release of software to production or other envs.
	- The pipeline can be configured to deploy on a schedule, select which group of customers to roll updates to, or roll back releases if there are issues.


## CI Configurations


CI configurations are usually stored in some config file.
- Workflows: Allows you to run and troubleshoot jobs separately so you can see failed builds in real time (sort of like a framework that facilitates unit testing)
- Jobs: Collections of steps that are executed in a single unit. Workflows are the set of rules that define a set of jobs and run order.
- Config steps: a list of key-value pairs where key = type of step and value = config map or string . When a step is run, you can specify which command to execute as a string value.
- Different CI frameworks may also have additional task configurations  and classes to optimize the CI/CD build.